Tutorial of restless enabled experiment (#741)
Qiskit/qiskit-experiments: docs/tutorials/restless_measurements.rst

Restless Measurements
=====================

When running circuits the qubits are typically reset to the ground state after
each measurement to ensure that the next circuit has a well-defined initial state.
This can be done passively by waiting several :math:`T_1`-times so that qubits in
the excited state decay to :math:`\left\vert0\right\rangle`. Since :math:`T_1`-times
are continuously improving (they already increased beyond :math:`100\,\mu s`), this
initialization procedure is now inefficient. This makes active reset necessary.
Active qubit reset, as employed by IBM Quantum systems is more efficient and saves
time but also lasts a few microseconds (between :math:`3` and :math:`5\,\mu s`).

> Furthermore, a delay, typically lasting :math:`250\,\mu s`, after the reset

Author: I mentioned it without going too much into details, see here: [a448c71](https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-experiments/pull/741/commits/a448c71a4e696db4af036c47ee919d088a3b5436)

operation is often necessary to ensure a high initialization quality.
However, for several types of characterization and calibration experiments qubit
reset is not needed and we can directly continue with the subsequent circuit after
a short delay, even if the qubit was measured in the excited state. Foregoing qubit
reset is the main idea behind restless measurements.

The IBM Quantum devices have dynamical repetition delays enabled. This means that
we can choose the delay between the execution of two quantum circuits. This delay

> can typically range from :math:`0` to :math:`500\,\mu s`. The default value for

Author: There might be more at play than the control electronics so I changed it to read `system`.

    cal_drag.enable_restless(rep_delay=1e-6, override_processor_by_restless=False)

If you run the experiment in this setting you will see that the data is often
unusable which illustrates the importance of the data processing. As detailed
in Ref. [2] restless measurements can be done with a wide variety
of experiments such as fine amplitude and drag error amplifying gate sequences
as well as randomized benchmarking.

Calculating restless quantum processor speed-ups
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We can compare the time spent by the quantum processor executing restless and
standard jobs. This allows us to compute the effective speed-up we gain when
performing restless experiments. Note that we do not consider any classical
run-time contributions such as runtime-compilation or data transfer times [3].

The time to run :math:`K` circuits and gather :math:`N` shots for each
circuit is

.. math::

    \tau^{(x)} = NK\left(\tau^{(x)}_\text{reset}+\tau^{(x)}_\text{delay}+
    \langle{\tau}_\text{circ}\rangle+\tau_\text{meas}\right),

where :math:`\tau^{(x)}_\text{reset}` and :math:`\tau^{(x)}_\text{delay}`

> are the reset and delay times, respectively. The superscript :math:`(x)`

Reviewer: Can you clarify the "delay times"? This is bit vague. Is this IO latency or cavity reset? Note that T1 experiment has _delay_ which is intentional.

Author: See here: [a448c71](https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-experiments/pull/741/commits/a448c71a4e696db4af036c47ee919d088a3b5436) I specified `post measurement delay times` which should be sufficient. I also added the ref to the paper in [667b65d](https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-experiments/pull/741/commits/667b65d957bf0802ff1f9a2408cea31b2801977d) so it should be clear.

indicates restless :math:`(r)` or standard :math:`(s)` measurements.
The average duration of all :math:`K` circuits in an experiment is
:math:`\langle{\tau}_\text{circ}\rangle=K^{-1}\sum_{k=1}^{K} \tau_{\text{circ},k}`

> where :math:`\tau_{\text{circ},k}` is the duration of only the gates in circuit

Author: I'd stick to only the gates here, its more precise.

:math:`k`. We therefore compute the quantum processor speed-up of restless
measurements as :math:`\tau^{(\text{s})}/\tau^{(\text{r})}` which is independent
of the number of circuits and shots.

The standard reset time is on average :math:`\tau^{(s)}_\text{reset} = 4\,\mu s`
whereas :math:`\tau^{(r)}_\text{reset} = 0\,\mu s` since we do not reset the
qubit in a restless experiment. By default, the repetition delay is
:math:`\tau^{(s)}_\text{delay} = 250\,\mu s`. For our restless experiments we
set :math:`\tau^{(r)}_\text{delay} = 1\,\mu s`. These speed-ups can be evaluated
using the code below.

.. jupyter-execute::

    from qiskit import schedule, transpile

    dt = backend.configuration().dt
    inst_map = backend.defaults().instruction_schedule_map
    meas_length = inst_map.get("measure", (qubit, )).duration * dt

    # Compute the average duration of all circuits

>     durations = []
>     for qc in cal_drag.circuits():
>         qc.remove_final_measurements(inplace=True)
>         qc_schedule = schedule(
>             transpile(qc, backend, initial_layout=[qubit]),
>             backend
>         )
>         durations.append(qc_schedule.duration)
> 
>     tau = sum(durations) * dt / (len(durations))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # Remove measurement instruction
    circuits = []
    for qc in cal_drag.circuits():
        qc.remove_final_measurements(inplace=True)
        circuits.append(qc)

    # Lowering the experiment program
    executed_circs = transpile(
        cal_drag.circuits(),
        backend,
        initial_layout=[qubit],
        scheduling_method="alap",
        **cal_drag.transpile_options.__dict__,
    )
    durations = [c.duration for c in executed_circs]

    tau = sum(durations) * dt / (len(durations))
```
Use of schedule IR is kind of discouraged. Now you can use circuit scheduler pass.

:math:`k`. We therefore compute the quantum processor speed-up of restless
measurements as :math:`\tau^{(\text{s})}/\tau^{(\text{r})}` which is independent
of the number of circuits and shots.

We approximate the standard reset time in IBM Quantum backends by
:math:`\tau^{(s)}_\text{reset} = 4\,\mu s` whereas :math:`\tau^{(r)}_\text{reset} = 0\,\mu s`
since we do not reset the qubit in a restless experiment. By default, the repetition delay is
:math:`\tau^{(s)}_\text{delay} = 250\,\mu s`. For our restless experiments we
set :math:`\tau^{(r)}_\text{delay} = 1\,\mu s`. These speed-ups can be evaluated
using the code below.

.. jupyter-execute::

    from qiskit import schedule, transpile

    dt = backend.configuration().dt
    inst_map = backend.defaults().instruction_schedule_map
    meas_length = inst_map.get("measure", (qubit, )).duration * dt

    # Compute the average duration of all circuits
    # Remove measurement instructions
    circuits = []
    for qc in cal_drag.circuits():
        qc.remove_final_measurements(inplace=True)
        circuits.append(qc)

    # Schedule the circuits to obtain the duration of all the gates
    executed_circs = transpile(

>         cal_drag.circuits(),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        circuits,
```
Sorry I made wrong suggestion here.

Author: no prob, thanks!
